Hello and welcome in this lecture we are going to be learning.
What on earth is an autonomous proxy's you can see there is a label of above two of my cars which is
saying autonomous proxy.
Well then what authority roles are what simulated proxies are how were going to use this to allow us
to move our car locally on the client and make sure that this gets updated on the server as well as
he can see I'm moving on my clients it's moving on the server too.
And we're going to figure out how we can make this happen.
It's going to be learning what this simulated proxy thing is that's happening on Client Number two down
on the bottom left.
So let's dive in and start seeing what these words are all about.
So as we saw in the last lecture we have a bit of a strange behaviour and bug if I go and get our two
clients next to each other need to first of all make sure they both spawn and I will get a client and
I have got a server and we noticed that with Client Number one as I try and drive it it is only driving
on the server and it's not driving at all here on the client's own screen.
Now to understand why this is happening we need to understand a little bit more about actor roles an
actor role is quite simply an extension of what we've seen before with authority.
But it goes a little bit beyond that.
So let's have a look.
There is a whole page on this linked in your resources about actor roles and remote roles and if you're
really interested you can go ahead and read that whole page and it will be very informative to you.
But let's just overview it from a more visual point of view.
So here we've got a diagram that shows in the green box the state on the server in the blue box is the
state on client number one.
And in the red box is the state on client number two.
And then what I've got inside the state is we've got a green box.
That green box is like a moving platform from section number one it's controlled entirely on the server.
Then we've got the little blue man.
Now he is a pawn that is controlled by our client number one.
And then we've got a little red man which is a porn controlled by our client number two.
So okay what happens here.
Well quite clearly on the server.
All of our actors are going to have authority because the server is authoritative and that means that
anything any state change on these Authoritative actors gets replicated down to the clients.
What about the clients.
Well in the simplest case of the cube This is entirely controlled by the server.
So these are known as simulated proxies.
That is because on these clients they entirely take their all their state from the server and all they
can do is try and simulator as best they can try and interpolate as best they can but all the information
they get comes directly from the server.
That same thing goes for the play a pawn that is not being controlled locally.
So here we've got the red pawn on the blue client and the red pawn on the blue client is also a simulated
proxy because he is not being controlled by this client.
However Same thing goes on at the read client the blue pawn now on the red line is a simulated proxy
because it's not being controlled locally.
However the blue pawn on the blue client and the red pawn on the red client are what is known as an
autonomous proxy.
What this means is that they don't just get their information about the state in how to update the state
from the server but they also can get it from the local play a controller.
Think about it.
You've got these these players being controlled by your mouse and keyboard on your client.
You can use some of that information to update the state of your autonomous proxy.
And the same thing is going to happen on the server but you can do it a little bit ahead of time you
can beat the server to it and make sure that there's a really smooth experience so that is why there
is this distinction between these autonomous proxies and these simulated proxies.
All it means is that the autonomous proxy has the added information of your play controller whereas
the simulated proxies have to go off the state from the server.
So how do we actually use these actor roles.
Well it's quite straightforward.
Every actor has two variables.
The role and the remote role now is very straightforward the role will always be whatever.
I've just shown you on this diagram here.
So on the server it will be authority on the client.
It may be simulated proxy or autonomous proxy.
And then you have another variable which is the remote role which basically tells you what the flip
side of that equation would be.
So on the server the remote roll of this cube would be simulated proxy and on the client the remote
role would be authority and so on and so forth.
Okay so that makes sense.
We're only really interested in what the role is on the current machine.
So that's what we're going to be using and what we want to do is actually show the role of the given
actor somewhere on the screen so that we can see what they are.
So how can we do this.
Well we could try logging out.
But the problem with the logs is that they're going to be all bunched together so we're going to get
the same logs for the client and for the server in the same place.
So we won't be able to tell who was the autonomous proxy who was the simulated and so on and so forth.
So what we need to do is make use of this lovely debug function here called draw a debug string.
You can see it is in the header drawer debug header help us.
So we're going to go ahead.
Include that header and.
Go into our code and I'm going to be doing this in tic.
But I can obviously include at the top so hash include.
And then I'm going to hash include my draw debug helpers and then down in teak I am going to try and
print out the role.
Now obviously the role has no text.
So we're going to have to go ahead and convert the roll into text because that's actually an even if
we go and have a look at the type of role if we can do that I think I can do that by hovering.
Then you can see that it is.
It's got some weird template around it.
The T genome as byte but we can see that the type essentially is E-Net role.
So we want to convert that in some of the type of role into some text which is descriptive of the type
of role.
So I'm going to do this with a little function and a switch statement.
So I'm going to actually declare this function tiny in the C++ so we don't have to declare it in the
head file at all.
And I'm going to make it a return string and it is going to be get in some text and we're going to take
the E net and what do we say it was called E net roll and then we can just have the roll in there and
then we can define the body of that which is going to switch on the role so use the switch statement
expansion if you've got one if not is going to be Switch open brackets close brackets and then curly
brackets and the different cases of ascertainment through and right in a second.
So it's going to be roll.
And we're going to do the first case look it's automatically filled how all my roles for me.
Thank you visual studio that was really helpful.
Now I don't need anything for Max but I will need something for none simulated or autonomous authority
and the default and instead of doing all the breaks what I'm going to do to make it really easy is just
return the text so I'm going to go ahead and return none for the none roll.
Going to return as just copy that over these returns statements for all of our switch cases.
I'm going to have simulated proxy over here.
I'm going to have autonomous proxy.
Like so.
I'm going to have authority as the last one.
And I'm going to have error.
For the default case we shouldn't get a default case basically.
Okay so we can now get the text from an in-home text which is helpful so we can get on to what we're
doing here is investigating the network role there and forgot to update the bar at the bottom and we've
got a draw debug string.
That's what we are doing so let's go ahead and draw the debug string.
It's going to take in the world so I'm going to do a Get world on the actor to get hold of our world.
Then you've got a location but this location can also be an offset from an actor that we give later
you can see that there is an actor that defaults to being an old Pointer the base actor.
So what I can actually go ahead and do is create an vector which is going to be above this current porn.
So it's X Y Z.
I want to go up in the Z dimension so it's going to be 0 0 and then one meter above the actor.
Then we've got the actual text itself.
So the text I can very easily just get with our get.
In some text and then we're going to pass in the name which is our role.
Okay.
And then we can give the actor which is just this we can give a text colour.
And I am going to give a duration because I wanted to last only this tick and then update the position
as our car moves around.
So we'll give it an F..
Colour you can just follow along with this if you want to see the effects as well or you can just watch
on my screen.
And then were going to give it a duration which is going to be the delta time in this given tick.
And that should do the trick.
Let's go ahead and save and build and see what the roles are of our different cars from the point of
view of the different clients.
So my build has completed without any errors Let's go in to unreel and hit play and see what's going
on.
Make sure both my cars load up.
I've got bit of an error there which will fix later.
But let's get our cars side by side and you can see that in our client sure enough above his head.
We have got autonomous proxy on the server.
We have got authority and if I drive my car around you can see that the car being driven around the
text above its head also says Authority.
So that is very much corresponding to what the diagram was saying on my lights.
Basically saying that everything on the server is going to have authority.
But what about those simulated proxy's at the moment we don't have any simulated proxy's least none
that we can easily see.
Let's go ahead and move our server around and get it in front of our autonomous proxy there and sure
enough it is a car that is not being simulated here locally so it is being a simulated proxy.
It's coming down from the authority of the server coming down to us.
So let's actually try playing with one more player in the mix another player.
That is not going to be on the server.
So that's going to be 3 in total let's go ahead and play and try and put more side by side and see if
we can indeed.
There we go.
We've got client one client too and we have got a server and you can see that each of the clients is
seeing their own car as being an autonomous proxy.
And we can see that on the server can just about make out that they are or indeed authority.
But what if we go and drive one of our autonomous proxy's in front of the other client.
You can see that his car is also a simulated proxy so that's starting to make sense.
Now I'm getting the updates of all the simulated proxy's coming down to my clients both the ones that
work simulator on server and the ones that were simulator on the other client.
The only thing that's not getting updated here is the autonomous proxy.
And you might well guess that this is because the autonomous proxy should be updating its own position.
It should be using its own logic to try and update the position a bit more cleverly than just getting
the replicated position.
So with that said we can easily go ahead and make sure that the position on our autonomous proxy is
being updated.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Update our autonomous.
So it's a fairly straightforward challenge for you to update the autonomous proxy you need to handle
the bindings locally first and then pass them up to the server so the first things is going to be updating
your state locally because that's not getting passed back down and propagated back down from the server.
And then you can add up to the server who will propagate it to all the other clients and then I'd like
you to check that your test to check that your positions coincide with your own and with all the other
clients and with the position calculated on the server so pause a video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay Welcome back let's dive into the challenge and have a go at this together.
So the first thing first.
We are currently from our bind access is calling the server move forward.
We clearly need to calculate do our own move forward first which will then call up to the server's own.
Move forward.
Now there's no need to actually check which roll we are because the only roll that has this autonomous
proxy behaviour is the one that has a play controller attached and so it is the only one that can actually
receive input from the player controller.
So we don't actually have to check this.
If we're going the bind axes then we are the autonomous proxy.
At least we can assume that if you want to you can put some assert in to make sure of this.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a void.
Move forward function in fact I'm going to go and copy it from and move forward.
You function and copy it from and move right.
You function as well.
Whoops.
Copying and pasting unfortunately.
And I'm going to remove the server underscore prefix from both of these.
And I am going to go ahead and copy them both in two AC plus plus to implement them.
I'm going to put them above actually our server implementations going from be higher level of abstraction
to the lower level of abstraction or what calls what and we are going to add in some and name spaces
to both of these functions and implement their bodies in the C plus plus all the usual kind of thing
or which Visual Studio will do for you.
I find Intellisense to be slower than my copying and pasting so i tend to do it manually.
So let's go ahead and remove the server underscore on a binding so that we are going to be calling these
local functions first and then what are we going to do once we have done this.
Well we are going to first of all update our throttle here locally.
So I'm going to do a throttle equals value.
And then after we've done that I'm going to call this server underscore move forward with our own value
right here.
Now you might say Sam doesn't this allow the player to cheat.
Well yes it does in a sense it does mean that they could set a weird throttle value for themselves but
all they would be doing is cheating themselves because on the server we still have all the validation
in place to keep that value within a sensible throttle threshold which means that they won't be able
to go any faster on the server side.
They're still not going to be able to win the game that by cheating on their local inserts.
So then we're going to do the same thing with move right except on move right.
We are going to update our steering throw and then we are going to call our server move right and we're
going to pass it.
The value as well.
So you can see here we are first handling the input locally then we're calling up to the server so it
can handle input too.
Let's go ahead and build that and see if it works.
Okay so that build went ahead and succeeded.
Let's dive into in real and that's sporn up our three instances.
Make sure that they all spawned up correctly.
We got our server on the right.
Got Game number one on the left and then we got game number.
So that was Game number two and game of 1 hasn't borne correctly.
So again had to launch that up on one more time note so we're getting a few sporn issues actually let's
fix those born issues here go and have a look at the log you can see that it is because the spawn out
of failed because of Culex collision in the spawn location.
I believe what's going on here on might correct me if I'm wrong but it's randomly choosing a spawn point.
And if there's another player already in that spawn point well tough luck you are going to fail to spawn
at least that's what I think's going on here.
So what we can do is just reduce that probability by increasing the number of spawn points I'm going
to ducks spawn point out and drag and that will duplicate it.
So if I Oulton drag a few times then we're going to add in quite a few spawn points which should allow
us to reduce that chance of collision.
That's go ahead play.
And this time sure enough we have got lots of those instances and we haven't had problems so we've got
our client to top left client one bottom left and on the right we've got a server.
Okay so let's try and drive one of these autonomous proxies.
Now if I'm driving my hat on as proxy you can see that I am getting the reaction that I deserve.
And if I go up and bump into a higher authority you can see that on both the client and the server that.
Proxy has actually come through perfectly fine because he's very smooth on the server not so smooth
on our client.
It's coming through a bit jolting just like all the simulator stuff does.
And but we can see that the position is coming through quite all right.
Let's come all the way back in front of our chaps.
And you can see there's a bit of lag there is in fact quite a lot of lag coming in here.
We'll see why this is and how we can fix it.
And in fact you can see it's definitely lost something it's definitely not quite in the same position.
We're going to figure out how we can reconcile these differences between our local simulation and the
remote simulation in the next lecture.
But for now this is good enough.
We have got to the stage where we are simulating our autonomous proxy and we're trying to pass up at
least we're doing our best to try and pass those values up to the server.
So that's I'll see you in the next lecture.
Well we'll be trying to work out how to make these two coincide.